Think about it. Who becomes the
champion? The guy who didn't try very
hard and just kind of half-assed his
workout? Or the guy who tries his
hardest? The reps in reserve high volume
thing, like I I really tried hard to be
polite and and and give it a a shot and
I did, and I I kind of pissed away a
couple years of my life building a
hypertrophy program and experimenting
with a hypertrophy program, but it gives
me the resolve to tell you with 100%
confidence
don't go down that path. It's dumb. It's
a massive waste of time.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering, which
gives me a unique perspective. Today,
I'm going to be reacting to a video that
was put out by a guy named Max Coleman,
who's a researcher. I think he's a
really smart guy. I think in this
particular topic, I I think he's been
definitely led down on the wrong path
or, you know, he's he's taken up the uh
he's carrying the flag for high volume.
If you watch my content, that is not the
way things work. If if volume worked,
you'd always be adding more volume and
just be doing more and longer workouts
in perpetuity if if volume had an
effect, and that's not how it works. So,
uh that's not how it works for
beginners, it's not how it works for
intermediates, it's not how it works for
advanced.
Yet, here we are and we have these
what I think are ludicrous volume
recommendations. So, let's let's hear
what Max has to say and and I'll explain
why it's a problem. Can the low volume
crowd finally [music] stop coping?
Because this study was just published,
hopefully ending this debate once and
for all. I mean, you'd think that dozens
of studies showing high volumes are
better for growth would be enough, but a
lot of people still think high volumes
just cause muscle swelling, not actual
growth. Fortunately, this idea was just
tested directly. They had subjects do
either 7, 14, [music] or 21 sets of
quads to failure in a single workout.
Then, they measured muscle thickness at
various time points to see how much
swelling occurred and how long it
lasted. So, was there any swelling?
Absolutely. But, it disappeared entirely
the very next day, regardless of how
many sets they did. And look, you can
make great gains doing just a few sets
per week, but thinking that low volumes
are somehow optimal just doesn't [music]
make sense at this point. So, if your
friend still thinks a 20th century
bodybuilder knew something scientists
today don't, send them this video and
follow for more science-based content.
Did you hear? 21 sets of quads to
failure in one workout. That study
deserves to be dropped in the trash can
because you can't do 21 sets of squats
to failure. And coincidentally, here we
have chat GPT.
I asked the question, how many times can
somebody take a muscle group to failure
in one workout?
And chat GPT seems to think between one
and three. And you know, that's
depending on intensity. The way I do a
set of squats, first of all, I train one
leg at a time because I'm a human and
humans run and walk on one leg at a
time. The only the only thing that
should be training two legs at a time is
probably a kangaroo because they run on
two legs at a time. Also, you want all
of your resources going into all your
body's resources going into one quad,
one glute as you're training
your legs. Like
why divide all your body's resources
into both legs when you can focus it on
one at a time get a much deeper level of
fatigue, thereby triggering more growth.
Now, I do one set per workout
for just about every movement. And like
I said, I I don't have to keep on
repeating myself. When somebody says 21
sets of the same exercise to failure in
the same workout,
just don't listen to somebody who says
something nonsensical like that. That
that doesn't exist. That is just
plain stupid. Now, keep in mind, Max is
a smart guy. He's just reporting on what
a study found. He didn't conduct the
study. I have
nothing but reservations about that
study. Yeah, it's it's trash. Volume I I
I I really tried. I even spent years of
my life doing a hypertrophy program for
the X3 workout system. So,
I tried it. I even tried it with our
customers. And
people were asking for it, too. So, it
wasn't like like there's there's a
there's a driving force behind the the
high volume people and and what they
how they see the world and how they want
exercise presented. So, I I I started
with a high intensity type program. I
created a hypertrophy type program. Both
programs are free. They come with the X3
bar. I did both programs. And now what
I'm doing is the Westside Barbell X3
Academy, which is much more like the
original program. So, very high
intensity, very brief. Ignore all of
this volume stuff. That's that's not how
it works. I know there's some people who
are are very accomplished bodybuilders
who did high volume, also took like a
truckload of drugs, also have incredible
genetics. I don't think you should
really do what these people do
necessarily. They're great to look at
just for awe, like, "Wow, I can't
believe how jacked that guy is." You
know, whoever whoever comes to mind, but
uh the high intensity way of doing
things is how athletes train. There are
no athletes on Earth that train with
high volume.
Uh in fact, the only institutions,
academic institutions that push volume
training are the American College of
Sports Medicine and the National Academy
of Sports Medicine. These are two groups
who are really focused on like getting
elderly people into fitness centers.
Well, lifting light weights and not
trying very hard is something that can
get elderly people into the gym because
I think from their perspective, they
just think getting people into the gym
is the goal.
Well, the problem with that idea is
oh, and they want to make sure that the
chances of injury are lower. So, when
you're training light, yeah, sure. Your
chances of injury are going to go down.
Also, your chances of doing anything at
all to your physiology go down as well.
Because think about it. Who becomes the
champion? The guy who didn't try very
hard and just kind of half-assed his
workout? Or the guy who tries his
hardest? Like the reps in reserve high
volume thing, like I I really tried hard
to be polite and and and give it a a
shot and I did, and I I kind of pissed
away a couple years of my life building
a hypertrophy program and experimenting
with a hypertrophy program, but it gives
me the resolve to tell you with 100%
confidence
don't go down that path. It's dumb. It's
a massive waste of time. Also, 21 sets
per body part per workout, like you
know, that's if you factor that through,
you know, eight body parts,
you might be training 7 to 12 hours a
week. Like, who has time for that? Maybe
you're a total loser and you got nothing
to do that you can do that, but you
don't need to do that. In fact, you'll
do better if you take the high intensity
approach. You can definitely try and
rattle my cage in the comments and tell
me I'm wrong, but you got to show up
with research. If it's research like
this, I'm going to rip it apart because
like I said, you can't do 21 sets of
squats to failure in one workout. Nobody
can do that. The fact that that was even
written down just tells me that the
researchers have absolutely no idea what
training to failure means.
>> [music]
>> I hope this helped.
Say something in the comments. See you
on the next one.
>> If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights,
>> [music]
>> we've got the answer for you.